
<br>
# G4X Documentation
<span style="margin-top:-3rem; display:block;"><a href="https://www.singulargenomics.com/">singulargenomics.com</a></span>
<br>


#### Welcome to G4X Documentation.  

These pages provide documentation, example workflows, and helper tools for analyzing, and post-processing data generated by the [**G4X spatial sequencer**](https://www.singulargenomics.com/g4x).

<br>

## :material-map-legend: G4X Reports
---

This section gives insights into how to read and interact with a variety of reports you may get during panel design and data generation processes with the G4X platform. These reports are essential to help you determine the quality of your data, identify potential issues, and make informed decisions about how you can best utilize G4X to answer your important biological questions. 

#### In this section you will find:

+ how to assess your [data quality](./g4x_data/index.md) using our provided run reports
+ details on the [HTML Summary](./g4x_reports/html_summary.md) and how to interpret it
+ details on the [custom panel report](./g4x_reports/custom_panel_report.md) and how to interpret it

<br>

## :material-file: G4X Data
---
#### Output reference and analysis import guides.  

The G4X produces multi-modal output containing tables, images, arrays and annotated matrices for single-cell analysis.
The files found in the output directory are compatible with popular Python libraries from the [`scverse`](https://github.com/scverse) ecosystem, like `scanpy, rapids-singlecell, squidpy, and spatial-data` and, if you prefer working in R, can be easily imported into [`Seurat`](https://satijalab.org/seurat/).

#### In this section you will find:

+ details on the [G4X output](./g4x_data/g4x_output.md) files and their organization
+ guides on [importing](./g4x_data/data_import.md) G4X data into popular analysis tools in Python and R 

<br>

## :material-tools: G4X Tools
---
### :material-magnify: G4X Viewer

The G4X Viewer is a Python-based, multi-purpose, interactive viewer specifically designed to help you explore your G4X data. The G4X Viewer is accessible through our [website](https://g4x-viewer.singulargenomics.com) or can be downloaded from [GitHub](https://github.com/Singular-Genomics/G4X-viewer) as a standalone application and hosted locally.

#### In this section you can:

+ learn how to [install](./g4x_tools/g4x_viewer/installation.md) the G4X Viewer on your system
+ find [resources](./g4x_tools/g4x_viewer/resources.md) to learn how to navigate your data with the G4X Viewer


<br>

### :material-code-brackets: G4X-helpers

#### Helper models and post-processing tools for G4X data.  

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/singular-genomics/g4x-helpers
```

With [G4X-helpers](https://github.com/Singular-Genomics/G4X-helpers) we provide an open-source toolkit for common post-processing tasks — such as applying custom segmentations or adding your own labels to the G4X-viewer. You can access its core features from the command-line interface (CLI) and additionally import it as a standalone Python package to interact with your data.

#### In this section you can:

+ learn how to [install](./g4x_tools/g4x_helpers/installation/index.md) G4X-helpers on your system
+ get started with [using](./g4x_tools/g4x_helpers/usage.md) the command line interface (CLI)
+ find a description of [CLI features](./g4x_tools/g4x_helpers/features/index.md) 

<br>

## :material-code-tags: G4X Tutorials
---

G4X Tutorials are a collection of example workflows that demonstrate how to analyze G4X data using popular Python and R libraries. These tutorials cover a wide range of topics, from basic data import and visualization to advanced analysis techniques.

#### In this section you can:

+ learn how to [plot spatial](./g4x_tutorials/plot_spatial.md) tissue information from the G4X data
+ generate novel nuclear or cytoplasmic [segmentations](./g4x_tutorials/segment_data.md) with popular models
+ see example workflows for [spatial transcriptomics analysis](./g4x_tutorials/spatial_workflows/index.md)

<br>

## support

Have feedback or ideas for additional tutorials?  
Drop us a note at [care@suingulargenomics.com](mailto:care@singulargenomics.com)  
Check out how to [contribute](./contributing/index.md) 

--8<-- "_partials/end_cap.md"
